feat: Architecture.md update (MTT-2637) (#763)
Unity-Technologies/com.unity.multiplayer.samples.coop: ARCHITECTURE.md

![boss room assemblies](Documentation/Images/BossRoomAssemblies.png "Boss Room Assemblies")

## Application flow

Boss Room assumes that the `Startup` scene is loaded first.  \

> __An interesting trick__:
>
> We have an editor tool that enforces start from that scene even if we're working in some other scene. This tool can be disabled via an editor Menu: `Boss Room > Don't Load Bootsrap Scene On Play` and vice-versa via `Boss Room > Load Bootsrap Scene On Play`.

ApplicationController class serves as the entrypoint and composition root of the application. It lives on a GameObject in the Startup scene. Here we bind dependencies that should exist throughout the lifetime of the application - the core DI-managed “singletons” of our game.  \

> __Note__:
>
> `ApplilcationController` inherits from the `VContainer`'s `LifetimeScope` - a class that serves as a dependency injection scope and bootstrapper, where we can bind dependencies.

## Game state and scene flow

After the initial bootstrap logic is complete, the ApplicationController loads the `MainMenu` scene.

> Each scene has its own entrypoint component sitting on a root-level game object. It serves as a scene-specific entrypoint, which, similar to ApplicationController binds dependencies (but these dependencies are local to the specific scene and will be released when the scene unloads). These `State` classes inherit from `LifetimeScope` too, and in the inspector they are set up to have ApplicationController to be their parent scope.

Reviewer: Your vcontainer section at the bottom is leaking here :P
I'd try not to spread this everywhere. Users reading this for the first time would be interested at first for why do we have a Startup scene in the first place --> singleton creation like NetworkManager and Application controller.
For Game state and scene flow, first thing I'd mention is we have a scene based state machine that manages our overall gameflow.

For MainMenu scene we only have the “MainMenuClientState”, however for the scenes that contain networked logic we also have the `server` counterparts to the client scenes, and both exist on the same game object.

As soon as we get into the CharSelect scene (either by joining or hosting a game) - our NetworkManager instance is running. The host drives game state transitions and also controls the set of scenes that are currently loaded in the game - this indirectly forces all the clients to load the same set of scenes as the server they are connected to (via Netcode's networked scene management).

> __Note__:
>

> > In Inspector we can choose a parent scope for any `LifetimeScope`s - it’s useful to set a cross-scene reference to some parent scope (most commonly ApplicationController). This allows us to bind our scene-specific dependencies, and still have easy access to the global dependencies of the ApplicationController in our State-specific version of a `LifetimeScope` object.

Reviewer: same here, injection should be invisible. No leakage!

### Application Flow Diagram

![boss room scene flow](Documentation/Images/BossRoomSceneFlowDiagram.png "Boss Room Scene Flow")

> __Note__:
>

> > BossRoom scene consists of four scenes where the primary scene (BossRoom itself) contains the State components and other logic of the game, along with the navmesh for the level and the trigger areas that let the server know that it needs to load a given subscene.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The main room's scene is split in four scenes where the primary scene (BossRoom's root scene) contains the State components and game logic, along with the navmesh for the level and the trigger areas that let the server know that it needs to load a given subscene. Each subscene is then loaded additively with those triggers.
```

For Unity Relay based multiplayer sessions, some setup is required. Please see our guide [here](Documentation/Unity-Relay/README.md).

Please see [Multiplayer over internet](README.md) section of our Readme for more information on using either one.

The transport is set in the transport field in the `NetworkManager`. We are using __Unity Transport Package (UTP)__.

Unity Transport Package is a network transport layer, packaged with network simulation tools which are useful for spotting networking issues early during development. This protocol is initialized to use direct IP to connect, but is configured at runtime to use Unity Relay if starting a game as a host using the Lobby Service, or joining a Lobby as a client. Unity Relay is a relay service provided by Unity services, supported by Unity Transport. See the documentation on [Unity Transport Package](https://docs-multiplayer.unity3d.com/docs/transport-utp/about-transport-utp/#unity-transport-package-utp) and on [Unity Relay](https://docs-multiplayer.unity3d.com/docs/relay/relay).

> `StartingHostState` and `ClientConnectingState` are the ones that would need to be extended if we needed to add a new transport. Both of these classes assume that we are using UTP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
this is talking about states before the state machine is introduced. moving to a bit lower in the file.

## Connection flow state machine

> The Boss Room network connection flow is owned by the `ConnectionManager`, which is a simple state machine. It receives inputs from Netcode or from the user, and handles it according to its current state. Each state inherits from the ConnectionState abstract class. The following diagram shows how each state transitions to the others based on outside inputs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Boss Room network connection flow is owned by the `ConnectionManager`, which is a simple state machine. It receives inputs from Netcode or from the user, and handles it according to its current state. Each state inherits from the ConnectionState abstract class. The following diagram shows how each state transitions to the others based on outside inputs.
If one were to add a new transport, `StartingHostState` and `ClientConnectingState` are the states that would need to be extended. Both of these classes assume that we are using UTP at the moment.
```

![boss room connection manager state machine](Documentation/Images/BossRoomConnectionManager.png "connection manager state machine")

## Session management and reconnection

In order to allow the users to reconnect to the game and to be able to restore their game state - we are keeping a map of their GUIDs to their respective data. This way we ensure that when a player disconnects, some data is kept and accurately assigned back to that player when they reconnect.

For more information check out the page on [Session Management](https://docs-multiplayer.unity3d.com/netcode/current/advanced-topics/session-management/index.html) in NGO documentation.

## UGS Services integration - Lobby and Relay

Boss Room is a multiplayer experience that’s meant to be playable over internet, and this is why we’ve integrated [Unity Gaming Services](https://unity.com/solutions/gaming-services) – a combination of Authentication, Lobby, and Relay is what allows us to make it easy for players to host and join games that are playable over the internet, without the need for port forwarding or out-of-game coordination.

> The following classes are of interest to learn more about our UGS wrappers and integration:

Reviewer: It'd be great to have a line or two on Facade and Mediator and why we have this structure.

> 
> - [AuthenticationServiceFacade.cs](Assets/Scripts/UnityServices/Auth/AuthenticationServiceFacade.cs)
> - [LobbyServiceFacade.cs](Assets/Scripts/UnityServices/Lobby/LobbyServiceFacade.cs)
> - Lobby and relay - client join - JoinLobbyRequest() in [Assets/Scripts/Gameplay/UI/Lobby/LobbyUIMediator.cs](Assets/Scripts/Gameplay/UI/Lobby/LobbyUIMediator.cs)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

As to not sprinkle service access logic everywhere and have a single source of truth for service access, we've wrapped UGS SDK access into Facades and used UI mediators to contain the service logic triggered by UIs. These are called in multiple places throughout our code base.

- [AuthenticationServiceFacade.cs](Assets/Scripts/UnityServices/Auth/AuthenticationServiceFacade.cs)
- [LobbyServiceFacade.cs](Assets/Scripts/UnityServices/Lobby/LobbyServiceFacade.cs)
- Lobby and relay - client join - JoinLobbyRequest() in [Assets/Scripts/Gameplay/UI/Lobby/LobbyUIMediator.cs](Assets/Scripts/Gameplay/UI/Lobby/LobbyUIMediator.cs)
```

- Relay Join - StartClientLobby() in [Assets/Scripts/ConnectionManagement/ConnectionState/OfflineState.cs](Assets/Scripts/ConnectionManagement/ConnectionState/OfflineState.cs)
- Relay Create - StartHostLobby() in [Assets/Scripts/ConnectionManagement/ConnectionState/OfflineState.cs](Assets/Scripts/ConnectionManagement/ConnectionState/OfflineState.cs)
- Lobby and relay - host creation - CreateLobbyRequest() in [Assets/Scripts/Gameplay/UI/Lobby/LobbyUIMediator.cs](Assets/Scripts/Gameplay/UI/Lobby/LobbyUIMediator.cs)

## Core gameplay structure

> `Persistent Player` prefab is what goes into the `Player Prefab` slot in the `Network Manager` of the Boss Room. As such - there will be one spawned per client, with the clients owning their respective `Persistent Player` instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> __Note__:
>
> An `Avatar` is at the same level as an `Imp` and live in a scene. A `Persistent Player` lives across scenes.

`Persistent Player` prefab is what goes into the `Player Prefab` slot in the `Network Manager` of the Boss Room. As such - there will be one spawned per client, with the clients owning their respective `Persistent Player` instances.
```
Adding a quick TLDR

Note: there is no need to mark these `Persistent Player` instances as `DontDestroyOnLoad` - NGO automatically keeps these prefabs alive between scene loads while the connections are live.

The purpose of `Persistent Player` is to store synchronized data about player, such as their name, chosen avatar GUID etc.

This `PlayerAvatar` prefab instance, that is owned by the corresponding connected client, is destroyed by Netcode when a scene load occurs (either to `PostGame` scene, or back to `MainMenu` scene), or through client disconnection.

Inside `CharSelect` scene, clients select from 8 possible avatar classes, and that selection is stored inside PersistentPlayer's `NetworkAvatarGuidState`.

Inside `BossRoom` scene, `ServerBossRoomState` spawns a `PlayerAvatar` per PersistentPlayer present.

`ClientAvatarGuidHandler`, a `NetworkBehaviour` component residing on the `PlayerAvatar` prefab instance will fetch the validated avatar GUID from `NetworkAvatarGuidState`, and spawn a local, non-networked graphics GameObject corresponding to the avatar GUID.

> ### Characters

Reviewer: Should add description for player graphics as well in the above hierarchy

Reviewer: @fernando-cortez wanna add something on this real quick?

> `ServerCharacter` contains NetworkVariables that store the state of any given character, and the server RPCs. It is responsible for executing or kicking off the server-side logic for the characters, which includes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ServerCharacter` lives on a PlayerAvatar or other NPC character and contains server RPCs and NetworkVariables that store the state of any given character. It is responsible for executing or kicking off the server-side logic for the characters, which includes:
```

- movement and pathfinding via `ServerCharacterMovement` - it uses NavMeshAgent that lives on the server to translate the character’s transform, which is synchronized using NetworkTransform component;
- player action queueing and execution via `ServerActionPlayer`;
- AI logic via `AIBrain` (applies to NPCs);
- Character animations via `ServerAnimationHandler`, which themselves are synchronized using NetworkAnimator;

`ClientCharacter` primarily is a host for the `ClientActionPlayer` class, and it also contains the client RPCs for the character gameplay logic.

> ### Game data setup
> 
> Game data in Boss Room is defined in `ScriptableObjects`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Game config setup

Game config in Boss Room is defined in `ScriptableObjects`.
```
Didn't we end up using "config" instead of data? I still see "data" in our source code though :/

A singleton class [GameDataSource.cs](Assets/Scripts/Gameplay/GameplayObjects/RuntimeDataContainers/GameDataSource.cs) is responsible for storing all the actions and character classes in the game.

[CharacterClass](Assets/Scripts/Gameplay/Configuration/CharacterClass.cs) is the data representation of a Character, containing such things as its starting stats and a list of Actions that it can perform. This covers both player characters and NPCs alike.

[Action](Assets/Scripts/Gameplay/Configuration/Action.cs) subclasses represent discrete verbs (like swinging a weapon, or reviving someone), and are substantially data driven.

> ### Action System

Reviewer: need to add a note that users will need to build their own action system for game designers if they want something extensible that allows game design emergence. Boss Room's action system is just for boss room's purpose.

> Action System is a generalized mechanism for Characters to "do stuff" in a networked way. ScriptableObject-derived Actions are implementing both client and server logic of any given thing that the characters can do in the game.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> __Note__:
>
> Boss Room's action system was built for Boss Room's own purpose. To allow for better game design emergence from your game designers, you'll need to implement your own.

Boss Room's Action System is a generalized mechanism for Characters to "do stuff" in a networked way. ScriptableObject-derived Actions are implementing both client and server logic of any given thing that the characters can do in the game.
```

> __Note__:
>
> `ActionRequestData` has a field of `ActionID`, which is a simple struct that wraps an integer, which stores the index of a given scriptable object Action in the registry of abilities available to characters, which is stored in `GameDataSource`.

From this struct we are able to reconstruct the action that was requested (by creating a pooled clone of the scriptable object Action that corresponds to the action we’re playing), and play it on the server. Clients will play out the visual part of the ability, along with the particle effects and projectiles.

On the client that is requesting an ability we can play an anticipatory animation, like for instance a small jump animation we play when the character receives movement input, but hasn’t yet been brought to motion by synchronized data coming from the server, that is actually computing the motion.

[Server]() and [Client]() ActionPlayers are companion classes to actions that are used to actually play out the actions on both client and server

#### Movement action flow

- Client clicks mouse on target destination.
- Client->server RPC, containing target destination.

> - Anticipatory animation plays immediately on client.
> - Server performs pathfinding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Anticipatory animation plays immediately on client.
- Network latency
- Server receives the RPC
- Server performs pathfinding.
```

- Once pathfinding is finished, server representation of entity starts updating its NetworkVariables at the same cadence as FixedUpdate.

> - Visuals GameObject never outpaces the simulation GameObject, and so is always slightly behind and interpolating towards the networked position and rotation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Network latency before clients receive replication data.
- Visuals GameObject never outpaces the simulation GameObject, and so is always slightly behind and interpolating towards the networked position and rotation.
```

### Navigation system

Each scene which uses navigation or dynamic navigation objects should have a `NavigationSystem` component on a scene GameObject. That object also needs to have the `NavigationSystem` tag.

#### Building a navigation mesh

The project is using `NavMeshComponents`. This means direct building from the Navigation window will not give the desired results. Instead find a `NavMeshComponent` in the given scene e.g. a __NavMeshSurface__ and use the __Bake__ button of that script. Also make sure that there is always only one navmesh file per scene. Navmesh files are stored in a folder with the same name as the corresponding scene. You can recognize them based on their icon in the editor. They follow the naming pattern "NavMesh-<name-of-creating-object\.asset>"

> ## Important architectural patterns and decisions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Noteworthy architectural patterns and decisions
```

In Boss Room we made several noteworthy architectural decisions:

### Dependency Injection

We use [Dependency Injection](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dependency_injection) pattern, with our library of choice being [VContainer](https://vcontainer.hadashikick.jp/).

DI allows us to clearly define our dependencies in code, as opposed to using static access, pervasive singletons or scriptable object references (aka Scriptable Object Architecture). Code is easy to version-control and comparatively easy to understand for a programmer, as opposed to Unity YAML-based objects, such as scenes, scriptable object instances and prefabs.

DI also allows us to circumvent the problem of cross-scene references to common dependencies, even though we still have to manage the lifecycle of MonoBehaviour-based dependencies by marking them with DontDestroyOnLoad and destroying them manually when appropriate.

### Client/Server code separation

Original problem: reading code with client and server code mixing together adds complexity and makes it easier to make mistakes. That code will often run in a single context, either client or server.

> Boss Room explored different client-server code separation approaches. We decided in the end to revert our initial client/server/shared assemblies to a more classic domain driven assembly architecture, but still keeping certain more complex classes with a client/server separation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Boss Room explored different client-server code separation approaches. For readers that have been following us since the beginning, we decided in the end to revert our initial client/server/shared assemblies to a more classic domain driven assembly architecture, but still keeping certain more complex classes with a client/server separation.
```

## Core gameplay structure

> __Note__:
>
> An `Avatar` is at the same level as an `Imp` and live in a scene. A `Persistent Player` lives across scenes.

`Persistent Player` prefab is what goes into the `Player Prefab` slot in the `Network Manager` of the Boss Room. As such - there will be one spawned per client, with the clients owning their respective `Persistent Player` instances.

Note: there is no need to mark these `Persistent Player` instances as `DontDestroyOnLoad` - NGO automatically keeps these prefabs alive between scene loads while the connections are live.

The purpose of `Persistent Player` is to store synchronized data about player, such as their name, chosen avatar GUID etc.

This `PlayerAvatar` prefab instance, that is owned by the corresponding connected client, is destroyed by Netcode when a scene load occurs (either to `PostGame` scene, or back to `MainMenu` scene), or through client disconnection.

Inside `CharSelect` scene, clients select from 8 possible avatar classes, and that selection is stored inside PersistentPlayer's `NetworkAvatarGuidState`.

> Inside `BossRoom` scene, `ServerBossRoomState` spawns a `PlayerAvatar` per PersistentPlayer present.
> 
> `ClientAvatarGuidHandler`, a `NetworkBehaviour` component residing on the `PlayerAvatar` prefab instance will fetch the validated avatar GUID from `NetworkAvatarGuidState`, and spawn a local, non-networked graphics GameObject corresponding to the avatar GUID.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Inside `BossRoom` scene, `ServerBossRoomState` spawns a `PlayerAvatar` per PersistentPlayer present.

Once initialized successfully, the `PlayerAvatar` GameObject hierarchy inside `BossRoom` scene will look something like (in the case of a selected Archer Boy class):

* Player Avatar: a NetworkObject that will be destroyed when BossRoom scene is unloaded
  * Player Graphics: a child GameObject containing NetworkAnimator component responsible for replicating animations invoked on the server
    * PlayerGraphics_Archer_Boy: a purely graphical representation of the selected avatar class

`ClientAvatarGuidHandler`, a `NetworkBehaviour` component residing on the `PlayerAvatar` prefab instance will fetch the validated avatar GUID from `NetworkAvatarGuidState`, and spawn a local, non-networked graphics GameObject corresponding to the avatar GUID.
```

- [Session management and reconnection](#session-management-and-reconnection)
- [UGS Services integration - Lobby and Relay](#ugs-services-integration---lobby-and-relay)
- [Core gameplay structure](#core-gameplay-structure)
- [Characters](#characters)
- [Game data setup](#game-data-setup)
- [Action System](#action-system)
  - [Movement action flow](#movement-action-flow)
- [Navigation system](#navigation-system)
  - [Building a navigation mesh](#building-a-navigation-mesh)
- [Important architectural patterns and decisions](#important-architectural-patterns-and-decisions)
- [Dependency Injection](#dependency-injection)
- [Client/Server code separation](#clientserver-code-separation)
- [Publisher-Subscriber Messaging](#publisher-subscriber-messaging)
  - [NetworkedMessageChannel](#networkedmessagechannel)

## Assembly structure

In Boss Room code is organized into a multitude of domain-based assemblies. Each assembly serves a relatively self-contained purpose.

An exception to this guideline is Gameplay assembly, which houses most of our networked gameplay logic and other functionality that is tightly coupled to the gameplay logic.

> This assembly separation style forces us to have better separation of concerns and serves as one of the ways to keep the code-base organized. It also provides a benefit of more granular recompilation during our iterations, which saves us some time we would've spent looking at the progress bar.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This assembly separation style forces us to better separate concerns and serves as one of the ways to keep the code-base organized. It also provides more granular recompilation during our iterations, which saves us some time we would've spent looking at the progress bar.
```

![boss room assemblies](Documentation/Images/BossRoomAssemblies.png "Boss Room Assemblies")

## Application flow

Boss Room assumes that the `Startup` scene is loaded first.

> __An interesting trick__:
>
> We have an editor tool that enforces start from that scene even if we're working in some other scene. This tool can be disabled via an editor Menu: `Boss Room > Don't Load Bootsrap Scene On Play` and vice-versa via `Boss Room > Load Bootsrap Scene On Play`.

`ApplicationController` component serves as the entrypoint and composition root of the application. It lives on a GameObject in the Startup scene. Here we bind dependencies that should exist throughout the lifetime of the application - the core DI-managed “singletons” of our game. See [Dependency Injection](#dependency-injection) section for more information.

## Game state and scene flow

After the initial bootstrap logic is complete, the ApplicationController loads the `MainMenu` scene.

> Each scene has its own entrypoint component sitting on a root-level game object. It serves as a scene-specific composition root.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each scene has its own entry point component sitting on a root-level game object. It serves as a scene-specific composition root.
```

> For MainMenu scene we only have the `MainMenuClientState`, however for the scenes that contain networked logic we also have the `server` counterparts to the client scenes, and both exist on the same game object.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The MainMenu scene only has the `MainMenuClientState`, whereas scenes that contain networked logic also have the `server` counterparts to the client scenes. In this case, both exist on the same game object.
```

> As soon as we get into the CharSelect scene (either by joining or hosting a game) - our NetworkManager instance is running. The host drives game state transitions and also controls the set of scenes that are currently loaded in the game - this indirectly forces all the clients to load the same set of scenes as the server they are connected to (via Netcode's networked scene management).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As soon as we get into the CharSelect scene - either by joining or hosting a game - our NetworkManager instance is running. The host drives game state transitions and also controls the set of scenes that are currently loaded in the game. This indirectly forces all of the clients to load the same set of scenes as the server they are connected to (via Netcode's networked scene management).
```

### Application Flow Diagram

![boss room scene flow](Documentation/Images/BossRoomSceneFlowDiagram.png "Boss Room Scene Flow")

> __Note__:
>

> > The main room's scene is split in four scenes where the primary scene (BossRoom's root scene) contains the State components and game logic, along with the navmesh for the level and the trigger areas that let the server know that it needs to load a given subscene. Each subscene is then loaded additively with those triggers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> The main room is split into four scenes. The primary scene (BossRoom's root scene) contains the state components, game logic, level navmesh and trigger areas that let the server know to load a given subscene. Each subscene is then loaded additively using those triggers.
```

>
> Subscenes contain spawn points for the enemies and visual assets for their respective segment of the level. The server unloads subscenes that don't contain any active players and then loads the subscenes that are needed based on the position of the players - if at least one player overlaps with the subscene's trigger area, the subscene is loaded.

## Transports

Currently two network transport mechanisms are supported:

> - IP based

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- IP
```

> - Unity Relay Based

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Unity Relay
```

> In the first, the clients connect directly to a host via IP address. This will only work if both are in the same local area network or if the host forwards ports.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When using IP, clients connect directly to a host via an IP address. This will only work if both client and host are in the same local area network or if the host forward ports.
```

For Unity Relay based multiplayer sessions, some setup is required. Please see our guide [here](Documentation/Unity-Relay/README.md).

Please see [Multiplayer over internet](README.md) section of our Readme for more information on using either one.

The transport is set in the transport field in the `NetworkManager`. We are using __Unity Transport Package (UTP)__.

> Unity Transport Package is a network transport layer, packaged with network simulation tools which are useful for spotting networking issues early during development. This protocol is initialized to use direct IP to connect, but is configured at runtime to use Unity Relay if starting a game as a host using the Lobby Service, or joining a Lobby as a client. Unity Relay is a relay service provided by Unity services, supported by Unity Transport. See the documentation on [Unity Transport Package](https://docs-multiplayer.unity3d.com/docs/transport-utp/about-transport-utp/#unity-transport-package-utp) and on [Unity Relay](https://docs-multiplayer.unity3d.com/docs/relay/relay).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Unity Transport Package is a network transport layer, packaged with network simulation tools which are useful for spotting networking issues early during development. This protocol is initialized to use direct IP to connect, but is configured at runtime to use Unity Relay if starting a game as a host using the Lobby Service, or joining a Lobby as a client. 

Unity Relay is provided by Unity Gaming Services (UGS) and is supported by Unity Transport. For more information, see our documentation on [Unity Transport Package](https://docs-multiplayer.unity3d.com/docs/transport-utp/about-transport-utp/#unity-transport-package-utp) and [Unity Relay](https://docs-multiplayer.unity3d.com/docs/relay/relay).
```

## Connection flow state machine

The Boss Room network connection flow is owned by the `ConnectionManager`, which is a simple state machine. It receives inputs from Netcode or from the user, and handles them according to its current state. Each state inherits from the ConnectionState abstract class. The following diagram shows how each state transitions to the others based on outside inputs.

> If one were to add a new transport, `StartingHostState` and `ClientConnectingState` are the states that would need to be extended. Both of these classes assume that we are using UTP at the moment.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you were to add a new transport, the `StartingHostState` and `ClientConnectingState` states would need to be extended. Both of these classes assume that you are using UTP.
```

![boss room connection manager state machine](Documentation/Images/BossRoomConnectionManager.png "connection manager state machine")

## Session management and reconnection

In order to allow the users to reconnect to the game and to be able to restore their game state - we are keeping a map of their GUIDs to their respective data. This way we ensure that when a player disconnects, some data is kept and accurately assigned back to that player when they reconnect.

> For more information check out the page on [Session Management](https://docs-multiplayer.unity3d.com/netcode/current/advanced-topics/session-management/index.html) in NGO documentation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For more information check out the page on [Session Management](https://docs-multiplayer.unity3d.com/netcode/current/advanced-topics/session-management/index.html) in our NGO documentation.
```

## UGS Services integration - Lobby and Relay

> Boss Room is a multiplayer experience that’s meant to be playable over internet, and this is why we’ve integrated [Unity Gaming Services](https://unity.com/solutions/gaming-services) – a combination of Authentication, Lobby, and Relay is what allows us to make it easy for players to host and join games that are playable over the internet, without the need for port forwarding or out-of-game coordination.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Boss Room is a multiplayer experience designed to be playable over the internet. To effectively support this, we have integrated a number of [Unity Gaming Services](https://unity.com/solutions/gaming-services). Authentication, Lobby, and Relay allow players to easily host and join games, without the need for port forwarding or out-of-game coordination.
```

The following classes are of interest to learn more about our UGS wrappers and integration:

> As to not sprinkle service access logic everywhere and have a single source of truth for service access, we've wrapped UGS SDK access into Facades and used UI mediators to contain the service logic triggered by UIs. These are called in multiple places throughout our code base.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To maintain a single source of truth for service access - and avoid scattering of service access logic - we've wrapped UGS SDK access into Facades and used UI mediators to contain the service logic triggered by UIs. These are called in multiple places throughout our code base.
```

- [AuthenticationServiceFacade.cs](Assets/Scripts/UnityServices/Auth/AuthenticationServiceFacade.cs)
- [LobbyServiceFacade.cs](Assets/Scripts/UnityServices/Lobby/LobbyServiceFacade.cs)
- Lobby and relay - client join - JoinLobbyRequest() in [Assets/Scripts/Gameplay/UI/Lobby/LobbyUIMediator.cs](Assets/Scripts/Gameplay/UI/Lobby/LobbyUIMediator.cs)
- Relay Join - StartClientLobby() in [Assets/Scripts/ConnectionManagement/ConnectionState/OfflineState.cs](Assets/Scripts/ConnectionManagement/ConnectionState/OfflineState.cs)
- Relay Create - StartHostLobby() in [Assets/Scripts/ConnectionManagement/ConnectionState/OfflineState.cs](Assets/Scripts/ConnectionManagement/ConnectionState/OfflineState.cs)
- Lobby and relay - host creation - CreateLobbyRequest() in [Assets/Scripts/Gameplay/UI/Lobby/LobbyUIMediator.cs](Assets/Scripts/Gameplay/UI/Lobby/LobbyUIMediator.cs)

## Core gameplay structure

> __Note__:
>
> An `Avatar` is at the same level as an `Imp` and live in a scene. A `Persistent Player` lives across scenes.

> `Persistent Player` prefab is what goes into the `Player Prefab` slot in the `Network Manager` of the Boss Room. As such - there will be one spawned per client, with the clients owning their respective `Persistent Player` instances.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A `Persistent Player` prefab will go into the `Player Prefab` slot in the `Network Manager` of the Boss Room. As such, there will be one spawned per client, with the clients owning their respective `Persistent Player` instances.
```

Note: there is no need to mark these `Persistent Player` instances as `DontDestroyOnLoad` - NGO automatically keeps these prefabs alive between scene loads while the connections are live.

The purpose of `Persistent Player` is to store synchronized data about player, such as their name, chosen avatar GUID etc.

This `PlayerAvatar` prefab instance, that is owned by the corresponding connected client, is destroyed by Netcode when a scene load occurs (either to `PostGame` scene, or back to `MainMenu` scene), or through client disconnection.

Inside `CharSelect` scene, clients select from 8 possible avatar classes, and that selection is stored inside PersistentPlayer's `NetworkAvatarGuidState`.

> Inside `BossRoom` scene, `ServerBossRoomState` spawns a `PlayerAvatar` per PersistentPlayer present.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Inside the `BossRoom` scene, `ServerBossRoomState` spawns a `PlayerAvatar` per PersistentPlayer present.
```

> Once initialized successfully, the `PlayerAvatar` GameObject hierarchy inside `BossRoom` scene will look something like (in the case of a selected Archer Boy class):

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once initialized successfully, the `PlayerAvatar` GameObject hierarchy inside `BossRoom` will look like this: 
> In this case, we have selected the Archer_Boy class.
```

> * Player Avatar: a NetworkObject that will be destroyed when BossRoom scene is unloaded
>   * Player Graphics: a child GameObject containing NetworkAnimator component responsible for replicating animations invoked on the server

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* PlayerAvatar: a `NetworkObject` that will be destroyed when `BossRoom` scene is unloaded
  * PlayerGraphics: a child GameObject containing `NetworkAnimator` component responsible for replicating animations invoked on the server
```

    * PlayerGraphics_Archer_Boy: a purely graphical representation of the selected avatar class

`ClientAvatarGuidHandler`, a `NetworkBehaviour` component residing on the `PlayerAvatar` prefab instance will fetch the validated avatar GUID from `NetworkAvatarGuidState`, and spawn a local, non-networked graphics GameObject corresponding to the avatar GUID.

### Characters

`ServerCharacter` lives on a PlayerAvatar or other NPC character and contains server RPCs and NetworkVariables that store the state of any given character. It is responsible for executing or kicking off the server-side logic for the characters, which includes:

> - movement and pathfinding via `ServerCharacterMovement` - it uses NavMeshAgent that lives on the server to translate the character’s transform, which is synchronized using NetworkTransform component;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- movement and pathfinding via `ServerCharacterMovement` uses NavMeshAgent that lives on the server to translate the character’s transform, which is synchronized using the NetworkTransform component:
```

- player action queueing and execution via `ServerActionPlayer`;
- AI logic via `AIBrain` (applies to NPCs);
- Character animations via `ServerAnimationHandler`, which themselves are synchronized using NetworkAnimator;

> `ClientCharacter` primarily is a host for the `ClientActionPlayer` class, and it also contains the client RPCs for the character gameplay logic.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`ClientCharacter` is primarily a host for the `ClientActionPlayer` class. It also contains the client RPCs for the character gameplay logic.
```

### Game config setup

Game config in Boss Room is defined in `ScriptableObjects`.

> A singleton class [GameDataSource.cs](Assets/Scripts/Gameplay/GameplayObjects/RuntimeDataContainers/GameDataSource.cs) is responsible for storing all the actions and character classes in the game.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A singleton class [GameDataSource.cs](Assets/Scripts/Gameplay/GameplayObjects/RuntimeDataContainers/GameDataSource.cs) is responsible for storing all of the actions and character classes in the game.
```

> [CharacterClass](Assets/Scripts/Gameplay/Configuration/CharacterClass.cs) is the data representation of a Character, containing such things as its starting stats and a list of Actions that it can perform. This covers both player characters and NPCs alike.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[CharacterClass](Assets/Scripts/Gameplay/Configuration/CharacterClass.cs) is the data representation of a Character, containing elements such as starting stats and a list of Actions that it can perform. This covers both player characters and NPCs alike.
```

[Action](Assets/Scripts/Gameplay/Configuration/Action.cs) subclasses represent discrete verbs (like swinging a weapon, or reviving someone), and are substantially data driven.

### Action System

> __Note__:
>
> Boss Room's action system was built for Boss Room's own purpose. To allow for better game design emergence from your game designers, you'll need to implement your own.

> Boss Room's Action System is a generalized mechanism for Characters to "do stuff" in a networked way. ScriptableObject-derived Actions are implementing both client and server logic of any given thing that the characters can do in the game.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Boss Room's Action System is a generalized mechanism for Characters to "do stuff" in a networked way. ScriptableObject-derived Actions are implementing both the client and server logic of any given thing that the characters can do in the game.
```

> We have a variety of actions that serve different purposes - some actions are generic and reused by different types of characters, and others are specific to the type of the character.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We have a variety of actions that serve different purposes. Some actions are generic and reused by different classes of character, while others are specific to a class.
```

> There is only ever one active Action (also called the "blocking" action) at a time on a character, but multiple Actions may exist at once, with subsequent Actions pending behind the currently active one, and possibly "non-blocking" actions running in the background.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There is only ever one active Action (also called the "blocking" action) at a time on a character, but multiple Actions may exist at once. In this case, subsequent Actions may be pending behind the currently active one. "Non-blocking" actions may also be running in the background.
```

> The way we synchronize actions is by calling a `ServerCharacter.RecvDoActionServerRPC` and passing the `ActionRequestData`, a struct which implements `INetworkSerializable` interface.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We synchronize actions by calling a `ServerCharacter.RecvDoActionServerRPC` and passing the `ActionRequestData`; a struct which implements the `INetworkSerializable` interface.
```

> __Note__:
>
> `ActionRequestData` has a field of `ActionID`, which is a simple struct that wraps an integer, which stores the index of a given scriptable object Action in the registry of abilities available to characters, which is stored in `GameDataSource`.

> From this struct we are able to reconstruct the action that was requested (by creating a pooled clone of the scriptable object Action that corresponds to the action we’re playing), and play it on the server. Clients will play out the visual part of the ability, along with the particle effects and projectiles.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
From this struct we are able to reconstruct the action that was requested and play it on the server. We do this by creating a pooled clone of the scriptable object Action that corresponds to the action we’re playing. Clients will then play out the visual part of the ability, along with the particle effects and projectiles.
```

> On the client that is requesting an ability we can play an anticipatory animation, like for instance a small jump animation we play when the character receives movement input, but hasn’t yet been brought to motion by synchronized data coming from the server, that is actually computing the motion.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We can also play an anticipatory animation on the client that is requesting an ability. For instance, a small jump animation when the character receives movement input, but hasn’t yet been brought to motion by synchronized data coming from the server computing it.
```

> [Server]() and [Client]() ActionPlayers are companion classes to actions that are used to actually play out the actions on both client and server

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[Server]() and [Client]() ActionPlayers are companion classes to actions that are used to actually play out the actions on both client and server.
```

#### Movement action flow

- Client clicks mouse on target destination.
- Client->server RPC, containing target destination.
- Anticipatory animation plays immediately on client.

> - Network latency

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Network latency.
```

> - Server receives the RPC

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Server receives the RPC.
```

- Server performs pathfinding.
- Once pathfinding is finished, server representation of entity starts updating its NetworkVariables at the same cadence as FixedUpdate.
- Network latency before clients receive replication data.
- Visuals GameObject never outpaces the simulation GameObject, and so is always slightly behind and interpolating towards the networked position and rotation.

### Navigation system

Each scene which uses navigation or dynamic navigation objects should have a `NavigationSystem` component on a scene GameObject. That object also needs to have the `NavigationSystem` tag.

#### Building a navigation mesh

> The project is using `NavMeshComponents`. This means direct building from the Navigation window will not give the desired results. Instead find a `NavMeshComponent` in the given scene e.g. a __NavMeshSurface__ and use the __Bake__ button of that script. Also make sure that there is always only one navmesh file per scene. Navmesh files are stored in a folder with the same name as the corresponding scene. You can recognize them based on their icon in the editor. They follow the naming pattern "NavMesh-<name-of-creating-object.asset>"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The project uses `NavMeshComponents`. This means direct building from the Navigation window will not give the desired results. Instead, find a `NavMeshComponent` in the given scene e.g. a __NavMeshSurface__ and use the __Bake__ button of that script. Also make sure that there is always only one navmesh file per scene. Navmesh files are stored in a folder with the same name as the corresponding scene. You can recognize them based on their icon in the editor. They follow the naming pattern "NavMesh-<name-of-creating-object.asset>"
```

## Noteworthy architectural patterns and decisions

### Dependency Injection

We use [Dependency Injection](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dependency_injection) pattern, with our library of choice being [VContainer](https://vcontainer.hadashikick.jp/).

DI allows us to clearly define our dependencies in code, as opposed to using static access, pervasive singletons or scriptable object references (aka Scriptable Object Architecture). Code is easy to version-control and comparatively easy to understand for a programmer, as opposed to Unity YAML-based objects, such as scenes, scriptable object instances and prefabs.

DI also allows us to circumvent the problem of cross-scene references to common dependencies, even though we still have to manage the lifecycle of MonoBehaviour-based dependencies by marking them with DontDestroyOnLoad and destroying them manually when appropriate.

> __Note__:
>
> `ApplilcationController` inherits from the `VContainer`'s `LifetimeScope` - a class that serves as a dependency injection scope and bootstrapper, where we can bind dependencies. Scene-specific State classes inherit from `LifetimeScope` too.
> 

> > In Inspector we can choose a parent scope for any `LifetimeScope`s - it’s useful to set a cross-scene reference to some parent scope (most commonly `ApplicationController`). This allows us to bind our scene-specific dependencies, and still have easy access to the global dependencies of the `ApplicationController` in our State-specific version of a `LifetimeScope` object.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> In the Inspector we can choose a parent scope for any `LifetimeScope`s. When doing so, it’s useful to set a cross-scene reference to some parent scopes; most commonly `ApplicationController`. This allows us to bind our scene-specific dependencies, while maintaining easy access to the global dependencies of the `ApplicationController` in our State-specific version of a `LifetimeScope` object.
```

### Client/Server code separation

> Original problem: reading code with client and server code mixing together adds complexity and makes it easier to make mistakes. That code will often run in a single context, either client or server.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A challenge we encountered when developing Boss Room was that code will often run in a single context, either client or server. Reading mixed client and server code adds a layer of complexity; making it easier to make mistakes. 
```

> Boss Room explored different client-server code separation approaches. For readers that have been following us since the beginning, we decided in the end to revert our initial client/server/shared assemblies to a more classic domain driven assembly architecture, but still keeping certain more complex classes with a client/server separation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To solve for this, we explored different client-server code separation approaches. For readers that have been following us since the beginning, we eventually decided to revert our initial client/server/shared assemblies to a more classic domain-driven assembly architecture, while still keeping more complex classes separated by client/server.
```

> Our initial thinking was separating assemblies by client and server would allow for easier porting to Dedicated Game Server (DGS) afterward. You’d only need to strip a single assembly to make sure that code only runs when necessary.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Our initial thinking was that separating assemblies by client and server would allow for easier porting to Dedicated Game Server (DGS) afterward; you’d only need to strip a single assembly to make sure that code only runs when necessary.
```

Issues with this approach:

> - Callback hell: this makes code that should be trivial, too complex. You can look at our different action implementations in our 1.3.1 version to see this.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Callbacks: It makes code that should be trivial, too complex. You can look at our different action implementations in our 1.3.1 version to see this.
```

- Lots of components could be single simple classes instead of 3 class horrors.

> We figured in the end this was not needed since:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After investigation, we determined this was not needed for the following reasons:
```

- You can ifdef out single classes, there’s no need for asmdef stripping.
- ifdeffing classes isn’t 100% required. It’s a compile time insurance that certain parts of client side code will never run, but isn’t purely required.
  - We realized the little pros that’d help with stripping whole assemblies out in one go were outweighed by the complexity this added to the project.

> - Most client/server class couples are tightly coupled and will call one another (they are two splitted implementations of the same logical object after all). Separating them in different assemblies makes you create “bridge classes” so you don’t have circular dependencies between your client and server assemblies. By putting your client and server classes in the same assemblies, you allow those circular dependencies in those tightly coupled classes and make sure you remove unnecessary bridging and abstractions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Most client/server class couples are tightly coupled and will call one another; they are two split implementations of the same logical object. Separating them into different assemblies forces you to create “bridge classes” in order to avoid circular dependencies between your client and server assemblies. By putting your client and server classes in the same assemblies, you allow those circular dependencies in those tightly coupled classes and make sure you remove unnecessary bridging and abstractions.
```

> - Whole assembly stripping has issues with NGO. NGO doesn’t support NetworkBehaviour stripping. Components related to a NetworkObject need to match client and server side, else it’ll mess with your NetworkBehaviour indexing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Whole assembly stripping is not compatible with NGO, in that NGO doesn’t support NetworkBehaviour stripping. Components related to a NetworkObject need to match client and server side. If this is incorrect, it will create difficulties with NetworkBehaviour indexing.
```

After those experimentations, we established new rules for the team:

- Domain based assemblies

> - Use single classes for small components (think the boss room door with a simple on/off state)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Use single classes for small components (think the boss room door with a simple on/off state).
```

  - If your class never grows too big, having a single `NetworkBehaviour` is perfectly fine and easy to keep the whole class in mind when maintaining it.
- Use client and server classes (with each pointing to the other) for client/server separation.
  - Client/Server pair is in the same assembly.

>   - If you start up the game as a client, the server components will disable themselves, leaving you with `{Client}` components executing (make sure you don’t completely destroy the server components, as NGO still requires them for network message sending.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - If you start up the game as a client, the server components will disable themselves, leaving you with `{Client}` components executing. Make sure you don’t completely destroy the server components, as NGO still requires them for network message sending.
```

>   - Client would have an m_Server and Server would have an m_Client property.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - The Client would have an m_Server and Server would have an m_Client property.
```

>   - Server class would own server driven netvars, same for Client with Owner driven netvars.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - The Server class would own server driven netvars, same for Client with Owner driven netvars.
```

  - This way, when reading server code, you do not have to mentally skip client code and vice versa. This helps make bigger classes more readable and maintainable.
- Use partial classes when the above isn’t possible
  - Still use the Client/Server prefix for keeping each context in your mind.
  - Note: you can’t use prefixes for ScriptableObjects that have file name requirements to work.
- Use Client/Server/Shared separation when you have a 1 to many relationship where your server class needs to send info to many client classes.
  - This can also be achieved with our NetworkedMessageChannel

You still need to take care of code executing in `Start` and `Awake`: if this code runs contemporaneously with the `NetworkManager`'s initialization, it may not know yet whether the player is a host or client.

### Publisher-Subscriber Messaging

We have implemented a DI-friendly Publisher-Subscriber pattern (see Infrastructure assembly, PubSub folder).

> It allows us to send and receive strongly-typed messages in a loosely-coupled manner, where communicating systems only know about the IPublisher/ISubscriber of a given message type. And since publishers and subscribers are classes, we can have more interesting behavior for message transfer, such as Buffered messages (that keep the last message that went through the pipe and gives it to any new subscriber) and networked messaging (see NetworkedMessageChannel section).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It allows us to send and receive strongly-typed messages in a loosely-coupled manner, where communicating systems only know about the IPublisher/ISubscriber of a given message type. Since publishers and subscribers are classes, we can have more interesting behavior for message transfer, such as Buffered messages (that keep the last message that went through the pipe and gives it to any new subscriber) and networked messaging (see NetworkedMessageChannel section).
```
